# GRIP-Tasks
## Graduate Rotational Internship Program @The Sparks Foundation
<br>
These tasks are done under the internship program as a part of July 2021 batch by Marisha Bhatti. The projects mainly come under the domain of Data Science & Business Analytics.<br>
### Tasks:
<br> - <b>Task 1:</b><br>Prediction using Supervised ML.<br>Simple Linear Regression Task.<br>Predict the percentage of an student based on the number of study hours.<br>Dataset can be seen and used from http://bit.ly/w-data.<br>Mean Absolute Error: 4.183859899002982<br>R2 Score: 0.9454906892105354
<br> - <b>Task 2:</b><br>Prediction using Unsupervised ML.<br>K-Means Clustering Task.<br>Predict the optimum number of clusters and represent it visually.<br>Dataset used is Iris.csv (can also be imported from sklearn.datasets).<br>This notebook has two parts. The first part uses a K-Nearest Neighbors model to perform a simple multi-classification task (Step 1 - 6). The second part tackles the unsupervised machine learning problem using K-Means Clustering model (Step 7 - 9).<br>The KNN model has an accuracy of 0.9736842105263158<br>From the K-Means model we find that the optimum number of clusters is 3.
<br> - <b>Task 3:</b><br>Exploratory Data Analysis - Retail<br>Finding out the weak areas where more profit can be made.<br>Dataset used is SampleSuperstore.csv (to view the dataset in github select view raw).<br><i>Category-wise:</i><br>Highest profit: Furniture<br>Lowest profit: Technology<br>Maximum Sales in Category: Technology<br><i>Sub-Category-wise:</i><br>Highest Profit: Copiers<br>Lowest Profite: Tables<br>Top 3 High Discount Products: Binders, Machines, Tables<br><i>State-wise:</i><br>Average Number of Deals per state is 203.9591836734694<br>Highest Profit: Vermont<br>Lowest Profit: Ohio<br>Highest amount of Sales: Wyoming<br><i>City-wise:</i><br>Highest Profit: Jamestown<br>Lowest Profit: Bethlehem
<br> - <b>Task 4:</b><br>Exploratory Data Analysis - Terrorism<br>Finding out the hot zone of terrorism.<br>The dataset can be downloaded from https://www.kaggle.com/START-UMD/gtd.<br>Middle East & North Africa has the most terrorist attacks.<br>South Asia has second most terrorist attacks.<br>Iraq has the most terrorist attacks in middle east.<br>Pakistan, Afghanistan and India are in the Top 3 in South Asia.<br>Iraq, Pakistan and Afghanistan are the Top 3 countries with most terrorist attacks.<br>In Eastern Europe, Middle East, South asia, Southeast Asia and subsaharan Africa there has been a huge increase in terrorist attacks whereas other regions have seen a decrease since 2001.
<br> - <b>Task 5:</b><br>Exploratory Data Analysis - Sports<br>Finding out the most successful teams, players and factors contributing win or loss of a team.<br>Datasets used are matches.csv and deliveries.csv.<br>Mumbai Indians, Chennai Super Kings, Kolkata Knight Riders are top three teams with most wins.<br>Top 3 Players based on Player of the Match Awards: Chris Gayle, AB de Villiers, MS Dhoni.<br>Top Batsmen: Virat Kohli, SK Raina, Rohit Sharma.<br>Top Bowlers: TG Southee, AD Mathews, SK Raina.
<br> - <b>Task 6:</b><br>Prediction using Decision Tree Algorithm.<br>Decision Tree Classifier Task.<br>The classifier would be able to predict the right class given any new data.<br>Dataset used is Iris.csv (can also be imported from sklearn.datasets).<br>Mean of Cross Validation Score: 0.9466666666666667<br>Standard Deviation of Cross Validation Score: 0.04521553322083511
<br> - <b>Task 7:</b><br>Stock Market Prediction using Numerical and Textual analysis.<br>Create a hybrid model for stock price/performance prediction using numerical analysis of historical stock prices, and sentimental analysis of news headlines.<br>Historical stock prices dataset can be downloaded from finance.yahoo.com or use SENSEX.csv file in the repository for numerical analysis.<br>Textual (news) data can be downloaded from https://bit.ly/36fFPI6 or https://www.kaggle.com/therohk/india-headlines-news-dataset?select=india-news-headlines.csv.<br>Mean Absolute Error: 0.5019762845849802<br>Mean Squared Error: 0.5019762845849802<br>Root Mean Squared Error: 0.7085028472666713


